README.md, before:

# GoAlert

GoAlert provides on-call scheduling, automated escalations and notifications (like SMS or voice calls) to automatically engage the right person, the right way, and at the right time.

![main-screen-updated](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/595010/189744659-66ee6aed-b7b6-4625-a2ac-1f8ad3c1ea4f.png)

## Installation

GoAlert is distributed as a single binary with release notes available from the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/target/goalert/releases) page.
Additionally, images are published on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/goalert/goalert) for each release. The `latest` tag is the most recent release, and `nightly` is the latest build from the `master` branch.

See our [Getting Started Guide](./docs/getting-started.md) for running GoAlert in a production environment.

### Quick Start

```bash
# podman
podman run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 goalert/demo

# docker
docker run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 goalert/demo
```

GoAlert will be running at [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081). You can log in with `admin`/`admin123`.

If you're using the demo container for integration testing:
- A non-admin user is available as `user`/`user1234`.
- You can specify the ENV variable `SKIP_SEED=1` to skip the initial seed data step.
- You can get a session token via `curl -XPOST -H 'Referer: http://localhost:8081' -d 'username=admin&password=admin123' 'http://localhost:8081/api/v2/identity/providers/basic?noRedirect=1'`.

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to GoAlert, please see our [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and the [Development Setup Guide](./docs/development-setup.md).

Please also see our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Contact Us

If you need help or have a question, the `#goalert` Slack channel is available on [gophers.slack.com](https://gophers.slack.com/messages/goalert/).

To access Gophers Slack and the `#goalert` channel, you will need an invitation. You request one through the automated process here: https://invite.slack.golangbridge.org/

- Vote on existing [Feature Requests](https://github.com/target/goalert/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Aenhancement+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc) or submit [a new one](https://github.com/target/goalert/issues/new)
- File a [bug report](https://github.com/target/goalert/issues)
- Report security issues to security@goalert.me

## License

GoAlert is licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](./LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Update README with local development instructions
- Added guidance for starting a dev server with `make start`
- Updated contributing section title for clarity
- Included default login info and note on live reload

README.md, after:

# GoAlert

GoAlert provides on-call scheduling, automated escalations and notifications (like SMS or voice calls) to automatically engage the right person, the right way, and at the right time.

![main-screen-updated](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/595010/189744659-66ee6aed-b7b6-4625-a2ac-1f8ad3c1ea4f.png)

## Installation

GoAlert is distributed as a single binary with release notes available from the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/target/goalert/releases) page.
Additionally, images are published on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/goalert/goalert) for each release. The `latest` tag is the most recent release, and `nightly` is the latest build from the `master` branch.

See our [Getting Started Guide](./docs/getting-started.md) for running GoAlert in a production environment.

### Quick Start

```bash
# podman
podman run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 goalert/demo

# docker
docker run -it --rm -p 8081:8081 goalert/demo
```

GoAlert will be running at [localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081). You can log in with `admin`/`admin123`.

If you're using the demo container for integration testing:

- A non-admin user is available as `user`/`user1234`.
- You can specify the ENV variable `SKIP_SEED=1` to skip the initial seed data step.
- You can get a session token via `curl -XPOST -H 'Referer: http://localhost:8081' -d 'username=admin&password=admin123' 'http://localhost:8081/api/v2/identity/providers/basic?noRedirect=1'`.

## Contributing (Local Development)

If you'd like to contribute to GoAlert, please see our [Contributing Guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and the [Development Setup Guide](./docs/development-setup.md).

Please also see our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

For most purposes, you can use `make start` from the root of this repo to start a development server.

- It will be running at `http://localhost:3030`
- Default login is `admin`/`admin123`
- Changes you make locally, UI and backend, should be reflected in the running server within a few seconds (no need to restart the server).

## Contact Us

If you need help or have a question, the `#goalert` Slack channel is available on [gophers.slack.com](https://gophers.slack.com/messages/goalert/).

To access Gophers Slack and the `#goalert` channel, you will need an invitation. You request one through the automated process here: https://invite.slack.golangbridge.org/

- Vote on existing [Feature Requests](https://github.com/target/goalert/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Aenhancement+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc) or submit [a new one](https://github.com/target/goalert/issues/new)
- File a [bug report](https://github.com/target/goalert/issues)
- Report security issues to security@goalert.me

## License

GoAlert is licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](./LICENSE.md).
